Newsletters: add 300 (2024-05-01) (#1635)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-05-01-newsletter.md

  transaction, most especially the amount of each output and the script
  to pay for each output. For example:

  ```text
  hash(
    2 BTC to KeyB,
    3 BTC to KeyC,
    4 BTC to KeyD
  )
  ```

  The `OP_CTV` opcode will succeed if it's executed in a transaction
  that exactly matches those parameters.  That means Alice's output in
  one transaction can be spent in a second transaction without requiring
  an additional signature or any other data, as long as that second
  transaction matches what Alice expected.

  Dryja suggests an alternative method.  Alice pays to a public key
  (similar to a [taproot][topic taproot] output but with a different
  segwit version).  The public key is constructed from a [MuSig2][topic
  musig] aggregation of one or more actual public keys plus a tweak for
  each key that securely commits to an amount.  For example (adapted
  from Dryja's post):

  ```text
  musig2(
    KeyB + hash(2 BTC, KeyB)*G,
    KeyC + hash(3 BTC, KeyC)*G,
    KeyD + hash(4 BTC, KeyD)*G
  )
  ```

  A transaction will be valid if it pays the underlying public keys in
  exactly the amounts specified.  No signature is required in that case.

>   This saves some space in the when compared to CTV in taproot, a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This saves some space when compared to CTV in taproot, a
```

  minimum of about 16 vbytes<!-- for CTV, the internal key needs to be
  revealed (~8 vbytes) and the CTV tapscript needs to be revealed (~8

>   vbytes)-->.  It seems to use about the same space when compared to CTV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  vbytes)-->.  It seems to use about the same amount of space when compared to CTV
```

>   in bare script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  in a bare script.
```

  When CTV is used in taproot, a keypath spend mutually agreed upon by
  all involved can be provided as an alternative to executing the CTV,
  allowing the parties to change where the funds go.  Exploding keys
  allows the same thing by the people who control KeyB, KeyC, KeyD.
  The efficiency is the same either way.

  Dryja writes that exploding keys "gives the basic functionality of

>   OP_CTV, while saving a few bytes of witness data. On it’s own it's

Reviewer: Obvious typo so no need for brackets:
```suggestion
  OP_CTV, while saving a few bytes of witness data. On its own it's
```

  them.  If the CLN node needs a block that has been pruned by its local
  `bitcoind`, it will call the Bitcoin Core RPC `getblockfrompeer` to
  request it from a peer.  If the block is successfully retrieved,
  Bitcoin Core authenticates it by connecting it to the header
  it keeps even for pruned blocks, and saves it locally, where it
  can be retrieved using standard block-retrieval RPCs.

- [Eclair #2851][] begins depending on Bitcoin Core 26.1 or greater and
  removes code for ancestor-aware funding.  Instead, the upgrade allows
  it to use Bitcoin Core's new native code for compensating for any _fee
  deficit_ (see [Newsletter #269][news269 fee deficit]).

- [LND #8147][], [#8422][lnd #8422], [#8423][lnd #8423], [#8148][lnd
  #8148], [#8667][lnd #8667], and [#8674][lnd #8674] replace LND's old
  sweeper with a new implementation, allowing the broadcast of
  settlement transactions and any transactions needed to effectively fee
  bump them.  Both the old and new implementations mostly accept the
  same parameters, such as the deadline by which the transaction must be
  confirmed and the starting feerate to use, with the new implementation

>   also adding a `budget` that is the maximum amount in pay in fees.  The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  also adding a `budget` that is the maximum amount to pay in fees.  The
```

  minimum of about 16 vbytes<!-- for CTV, the internal key needs to be
  revealed (~8 vbytes) and the CTV tapscript needs to be revealed (~8
  vbytes)-->.  It seems to use about the same amount of space when compared to CTV
  in a bare script (i.e., directly placed in an output script).

  When CTV is used in taproot, a keypath spend mutually agreed upon by
  all involved can be provided as an alternative to executing the CTV,
  allowing the parties to change where the funds go.  Exploding keys
  allows the same thing by the people who control KeyB, KeyC, KeyD.
  The efficiency is the same either way.

  Dryja writes that exploding keys "gives the basic functionality of
  OP_CTV, while saving a few bytes of witness data. On its own it's
  maybe not all that compelling, but I wanted to put it out there as
  maybe it could be a useful primitive as part of a more complex
  covenant construction."

- **Analyzing a contract protocol with Alloy:** Dmitry Petukhov
  [posted][petukhov alloy] to Delving Bitcoin a [specification][petukhov
  spec] he had created using the [Alloy][] specification language for
  the simple `OP_CAT`-based vault described in [Newsletter #291][news291

>   catvault].  Petukhov used Alloy to [find][petukhov mods] several

Reviewer 2: I would add after "... several useful modifications": "and to highlight important constraints to observe for implementors". 

I would add these words because the fact that "envault transaction must not have two outputs" was not apparent, and I actually only understood that after I've made the spec and started model-checking it with Alloy. It showed me these states that I did not expect. It was also something that was not directly related to the covenant, but to the software that implements the whole contract, and that is also a display of usefulness of modelling with Alloy

  confirmed and the starting feerate to use, with the new implementation
  also adding a `budget` that is the maximum amount to pay in fees.  The
  new implementation provides more configurability, makes writing tests
  easier, makes use of both [CPFP][topic cpfp] and [RBF][topic rbf] fee
  bumping (each when appropriate), does a better job of batching fee
  bumps to save on fees, and only updates feerates each block rather
  than every 30 seconds.

- [LND #8627][] now defaults to rejecting user-requested changes to
  channel settings that require above-zero _inbound forwarding fees_.  For
  example, imagine Alice wants to forward a payment through Bob to
  Carol.  By default, Bob can no longer use the newly-added LND feature
  for inbound forwarding fees (see [Newsletter #297][news297 inbound])
  to require that Alice pay extra.  This new default ensures that Bob's
  node remains compatible with nodes that don't support inbound
  forwarding fees (which is currently almost all LN nodes).  Bob can
  choose to be backwards incompatible by overriding the default with the
  `accept-positive-inbound-fees` LND configuration setting, or he can

>   possibly achieve the desired result while remaining backwards

Reviewer 3: unsure on this suggestion
```suggestion
  achieve the desired result while remaining backwards
```

Author: Keeping as-is.  It's a possibility because achieving the desired result depends on other parties understanding negative fees.  If nobody except Bob knew about negative fees, then everyone would choose the same paths regardless of what negative fee he set.  With positive fees, ignorance would prevent payments from being forwarded, so it's not a hypothetical.

  compatible by raising his outbound forwarding fee to Carol and then
  using negative inbound forwarding fees to offer discounts on payments
  that don't originate from Alice.

- [Libsecp256k1 #1058][] changes the algorithm used for generating
  public keys and signatures.  Both the old algorithm and the new

>   algorithm run in constant time to avoid creating timing [side
>   channel][topic side channels] vulnerabilities.  Benchmarks with the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  algorithm run in constant time to avoid creating timing [side-channel][topic side channels] 
  vulnerabilities.  Benchmarks with the
```

  new algorithm show it to be about 12% faster.  A [short blog
  post][stratospher comb] by one of the PR reviewers describes how the
  new algorithm works.

- [BIPs #1382][] assigns [BIP331][] to the proposal for [ancestor
  package relay][topic package relay].

- [BIPs #1068][] swaps two parameters in [BIP47][] version 1 reusable
  payment codes to match an implementation in Samourai wallet.  Details
  about where to find information for later versions of reusable

>   payments codes is also added to the BIP.  Note that Samourai's initial

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  payment codes is also added to the BIP.  Note that Samourai's initial
```

  in the U.S. or with ties to its people, to stay informed and to
  consider offering support when opportunities arise.

- **CoreDev.tech Berlin event:** many Bitcoin Core contributors met in person
  for a periodic [coredev.tech][] event last month in Berlin.
  [Transcripts][coredev xs] for some of the sessions from the event have been
  provided by attendees.  Presentations, code reviews, working groups, or other
  sessions covered:

  - ASMap research findings
  - assumeUTXO Mainnet Readiness
  - BTC Lisp
  - CMake
  - cluster mempool
  - coin selection

>   - cross input signature aggregation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - cross-input signature aggregation
```

  - current network spam
  - fee estimation
  - general BIP discussion
  - great consensus cleanup
  - GUI discussions
  - legacy wallet removal
  - libbitcoinkernel
  - MuSig2
  - P2P monitoring
  - package relay review
  - private transaction broadcasting
  - review of current GitHub Issues
  - review of current GitHub PRs
  - signet/testnet4
  - silent payments
  - Stratum v2 template provider
  - warnet
  - weak blocks

>   - among other topics

Reviewer: Should perhaps not be a bullet point?

Reviewer: Including it in the sentence sounds good to me.
